all# Cyber Security Base course project 1

This is the course project 1 containing a csrf flaw and four flaws from the [OWASP top ten 2021](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)

Link to the repository: https://github.com/AtteMa/CybersecurityMooc-Project1

You can test the demo project by downloading and extracting the files and running the following commands:

```
pyhton manage.py makemigrations
python manage.py migrate
python manage.py runserver
```

After successfully launched, you can find the demo project at [](http://127.0.0.1:8000/polls/)

# Flaw 1: Cross-site Request Forgery

Links to the flaws:
- https://github.com/AtteMa/CybersecurityMooc-Project1/blob/main/Cybersecurity-Project/polls/templates/polls/add_poll.html#L9
- https://github.com/AtteMa/CybersecurityMooc-Project1/blob/main/Cybersecurity-Project/polls/templates/polls/detail.html#L10
- https://github.com/AtteMa/CybersecurityMooc-Project1/blob/main/Cybersecurity-Project/polls/views.py#L18

Cross-Site Request Forgery is a type of security vulnerability that occurs when a malicious website tricks a user's web browser into performing actions on a different website without their knowledge or consent. CSRF attacks exploit the trust that websites have in a user's browser. When a user is logged into any website, their browser stores authentication cookies that are automatically sent with future requests to that site. For example, an attacker can create a website containing malicious POST requests to the target website, using the legitimate users stored cookies to make it appear as if the user sent the request. To prevent CSRF attacks, websites use CSRF tokens. These tokens are unique for each user session and must be included with any request that changes data on the site. The server verifies the tokens authenticity, ensuring the request is legitimate and not generated by a malicious website.

Django has a built-in CSRF token functionality. To fix this issue, we need to replace the @csrf_exempt decorators from every view in our views.py with @csrf_protect decorators. Additionally we need to remove the comments from {% csrf_token %} line in every form in our application.

# Flaw 2: SQL Injection

Links to the flaws:
- https://github.com/AtteMa/CybersecurityMooc-Project1/blob/main/Cybersecurity-Project/polls/views.py#L50
- https://github.com/AtteMa/CybersecurityMooc-Project1/blob/main/Cybersecurity-Project/polls/views.py#L89

Injection in general is a vulnerability in the application, where it is possible for a malicious user to send code to the server hidden as regular user data. The malicious code then gets executed on the server, and as an unexpedted action can cause all kinds havoc, from stolen user data to the deletion of whole databases. The most common form of injection is SQL injection, where the attacker tries to insert malicious SQL code inside the input or parameter fields of the legitimate SQL query. To prevent SQL injections, one needs to properly parameterize their queries and validate and sanitize their input data, so that the query does not contain anything extra.

In the code, the injection is already fixed with djangos "models" framework. Models provides tools for sanitizing and parametrizing database queries. Using models in the application prevents injection to the SQLite database. The commented lines of the code contain the flawed implementation, in which we use direct database connection with an SQL query that has no parameterising and thus is vulnerable to injection.

# Flaw 3: Insecure Design

Links to the flaws:
- https://github.com/AtteMa/CybersecurityMooc-Project1/blob/main/Cybersecurity-Project/polls/tests.py#L1
- https://github.com/AtteMa/CybersecurityMooc-Project1/blob/main/Cybersecurity-Project/polls/views.py#L64

Insecure design refers to the creation of software systems, applications, or products that inherently lack the necessary security measures to protect against potential threats and vulnerabilities. It is different from insecure implementation, in which one can have flaws in the software implementation despite having a secure design. Insecure implementation can always be fixed with the tools that well thought out secure design provides, but insecure design cannot be fixed by even a perfect implementation as by definition, needed security controls were never created in the first place.

The flaws in my project are the complete lack any testing and bad design where user can vote more than once on a single question. I have created commented-out tests in tests.py that cover checking if the questions are displayed properly, for example that the questions that have a publish date in the future are not displayed to the user. To fix this issue all we need to do is remove the comments from tests.py. The multiple voting issue can be fixed with a session check so that one user can vote only once.

# Flaw 4: Vulnerable and Outdated Components

Links to the flaws:
- https://github.com/AtteMa/CybersecurityMooc-Project1/blob/main/Cybersecurity-Project/project1/settings.py#L5

Vulnerable and outdated components is a flaw where the software is built using pre-existing components, for example older versions of libraries and dependancies that have known vulnerabilites, thereby exposing the application to these vulnerabilities as well. To counter this flaw, the developer must regularly audit the versions of any frameworks or components their application uses. In this application we are using django, which luckily notifys us automatically when there is a new version available. Django also has automatic warnings for outdated dependencies.

The project is built using a secure and updated version of django, but we could make it vulnerable by using an older version of django that has known vulnerabilities. For example, django version 4.2.1 has known denial of service vulnerabilities in some of its classes and functions. There are instructions on how to install the outdated version in the code. If we built our project using the outdated django version, we could fix it by checking the latest version and updating our framework.

# Flaw 5: Security logging and monitoring failures

Links to the flaws:
- https://github.com/AtteMa/CybersecurityMooc-Project1/blob/main/Cybersecurity-Project/polls/views.py#L11
- https://github.com/AtteMa/CybersecurityMooc-Project1/blob/main/Cybersecurity-Project/project1/settings.py#L132

Application logs are a primary source of information for monitoring and detecting security incidents. By analyzing log data, the developer can identify suspicious activities and/or potential breaches. In the event of a security breach, logs provide a record of system activities. This information is essential in responding to the breach, as it helps to understand where and how the incident occured. Logging application alerts and warnings can help developers to respond to malicious activity nearly instantly.

In my application there is no logging present whatsoever. To fix this issue we need to implement a logger to log essential functions of our application, for example voting and adding a poll. This could help to identify activity that could possibly be malicious, like a single user voting multiple times in a single poll.
